the idea of growing up and taking
responsibility is expressed in a very
gender specific language we say in
English be a man
we don't say be a person we say man up
we don't say adult it up
we don't say human it up this is insane
this woman is a thing I'm gonna wait
till as many people get in here as I'm
keep playing it crying oh my god oh my
god today is the day that I've learned
that Shane Dawson's book has been
removed from bookstore shelves it has
for example disappeared from the website
of Target apparently the target um
supermarket chain a department store
chain whatever you want to call it it's
gonna stop selling Shane Dawson's books
entirely there are a lot of kind of
shallow responses you could have this in
the in the support of the moment like
are we going to police the morality of
each and every author at Target does
target sell books written by communists
does target sell books written by Nazis
does target sell you know whatever ito
Hitler's Mein Kampf for historical
interest I mean you know there are
important books historically that are
written by industry terrible people
including some former presidents the
United States whose statues people have
been trying to tear down lately I my dad
right I used to have a slogan on this
channel it ain't deep but it's real
we're gonna we're gonna we're gonna keep
it real in this video for this one this
one goes pretty deep there's a very
interesting parallel between the moral
panic over Shane Dawson and his frankly
pedophile comments about sex with
underage people and the controversy that
is in court in France right now a
controversy that has roots going back to
1977 if you go to Wikipedia leave you
the link below this video and let me
just note it's very rare that I provide
a Wikipedia article
as a link in the description somebody
put a lot of work into this Wikipedia
article there's a very very strange
history in France of left-wing
intellectuals opposing age of consent
laws and left-wing intellectuals
endorsing and supporting a pedophilia no
I
that wasn't a typo no I didn't misspeak
bizarrely all kinds of big names people
who are still uncritically worshiped on
the left wing like jean-paul Sartre
Michel Foucault Roland Barse react
Derrida etc this is sort of greatest
hits of the left-wing fringe of the
French intellectual establishment they
all stood up and wrote open letters and
protested that it was somehow a great
injustice to deprive them of the right
to have sex of people under 16 years of
age and even under 14 years of age they
were on paper at least pro pedophile and
as I mentioned this debate in French
politics continues to this day and is
presumed that at least symbolically is
going to conclude with the conviction of
Gabrielle Metz Neph Gabrielle Metz Neve
is a famous author in France not so
famous here in the english-speaking part
of the world
Gabrielle Madson F it's not just that he
faces accusations from one ex-girlfriend
shall we say a young woman whom he had
sexual relations with when she was 14
and he was approximately fifty years old
uh-huh and by the way the number
fourteen is significant because the age
of consent in France is so low anyway if
she had been 15 it would have been legal
and there wouldn't be any possible
repercussions so when the age of consent
is so low when the age of consent is 15
they could only investigate and
prosecute cases where it's a 14-year old
but it up art from the testimony of that
woman she's now a fully grown woman's
many many years later um we have the
testimony of the author himself who in
numerous essays interviews in books
advanced his shall we say paedophile
philosophy of life and it's interesting
every single newspaper article I've
jinan this and including some broadcast
media that covered this in news items
every single one vaguely talks about the
French establishment supporting it's not
it's not the conservative establishment
all right it's not the Catholic
establishment it's not the Jewish just
that one it's not the process that we
are talking about the left-wing
Communist and crypto communist is that
we run it whatever we were talking about
people like jean-paul sartre Michel
Foucault Roland bar Jack Derrida etc
click on the Wikipedia article for the
fullest names that's part of what makes
this so worth puzzling out so we're
thinking about and asking yourself in
what ways French society and
civilization has changed since 1977 and
in what ways it has stayed the same
now I also think if you are a left-wing
intellectual yourself in the audience
right now I think it is really worth
profoundly reflecting on just how wrong
these people were and if their judgment
was so bad about about this issue about
pedophilia to be blunt
how could you possibly trust or respect
their judgment on any of the nuanced
political and philosophical issues that
people including university professors
do indeed respect them on a quick
parallel I saw a lecture recently from a
Muslim author and this is actually a
white Western guy who converted to Islam
he wrote a whole book and he's going on
a lecture tour about Islam and slavery
because he he admits to himself that he
has difficulty trusting you know that
the word of the Prophet like how can you
take seriously the political opinions of
the Prophet Muhammad if you know that he
was pro Syria and what ensues is like
you know the most cringe inducing
process of him bending over backwards to
offer one insincere excuse after another
for why well after all slavery was no
problem and it was a long time ago when
things were different than etc
there is a great deal of that same
rationalization that same style of
excuse making mentality that goes on now
where the year is 2020 and people want
to pretend that 1977 and 1979 was
somehow you know like 10,000 years ago
as if the rules of morality did apply
then as now let me tell you something
when you're talking about slavery
exactly the same issues were being
debated in Aristotle in ancient Greece
ain't a damn thing changed charlie with
the age of consent I would say that to
both in ancient religions and in every
century every period the same
fundamental questions the same
fundamental problems with their human
nature ain't changed the reality of love
and relationships and raising children
those fundamental aspects of life have
not changed so you can't pretend that in
there was somehow a totally different
moral compass that apply to these people
when they stood up and I mean to compare
this to Shane Dawson there is no
comparison these people were sending
letters to the editor they were sending
formal protests the government they were
actually making a probe at a file
protest movement they were arguing
deadpan seriously that it was an unjust
oppressive regime that would deprive
them as pedophiles of the right of
sleeping with people 14 years old and
younger Wikipedia article covers in fine
some of them specify 12 and 13 some of
them specify 11 different authors within
this group in France had different
particular predilections in terms of how
far they were went in so let me just you
a question let me ask a question if you
are gonna take shane dawson off the
bookshelf if you are gonna take shane
dawson out of the libraries if you're
gonna burn Shane Dawson's book how about
jean-paul Sartre how about Jacques
Derrida all about anyone on this list of
greatest hits of the fridge left Romania
I can't I can't I don't want to save me
and things about people this is insane
this is insane
this person literally oh my god no there
is a
wrong with Shane Dawson and I'd feel
ashamed of myself if I just dropped the
mic at that point and put up this video
presenting him as if he were some kind
of unjustly persecuted great author he's
not a great author and frankly the
persecution of Shane Dawson is richly
deserved and very easily justified but I
think his latest breakdown or sequence
of breakdowns raises a number of deeper
topics for us all to reflect on in the
English language and frankly in every
language I've ever studied maturity is
gender coded right the idea of growing
up and taking responsibility is
expressed in a very gender specific
language we say in English
be a man we don't say be a person we say
man up we don't say adult it up we don't
say human it up right the very basic
concept of being mature of being in
control of being responsible morally or
otherwise the consequence your actions
it's always expressed in these loaded
terms that are profoundly linked to
culturally specific concepts of manhood
and womanhood and these are
heteronormative they're linked to ideas
about heterosexuality let me be clear in
a perfect world these things would not
be any different for gay men and
straight men but we're not living in a
perfect world I would say to you right
now that working as a bank teller or
working as a car salesman I think that
these jobs should not be any different
for men and women I think they should
not be different for gay men and
straight men what have you but in
reality I think if you talk to anyone
doing either of those jobs they'll right
away talk to you about the numerous ways
in which it really is different for
different genders and it is different
for people of different sexualities I
always resent it when I
walk into a bank and they've got some
woman in a tight revealing dress
standing there and it's like I'm here to
deal with money or here to deal with
wire transfers I don't want to feel like
I'm walking into a bar or a strip club
I don't want sex appeal to be part of
what goes on in a bank and of course
it's striking even when you talk about
straight men who sell used cars or
something the importance of being
handsome and being well-dressed and all
that stuff stuff is gonna be different
if it's a gay man or a straight man
who's a used car salesman
there are ways in which even if we can
admit ideally there should be no gender
but there should be normative sexuality
and selling cars working Bank there is
in this same way I really think we have
to recognize that part of Shane Dawson's
problem is that he has embraced this
role of being a petulant infant late
into his own adulthood that you know it
has never occurred to him to think of
himself in a parental role as being
someone like a father figure
neither towards his own relatives like
you know who are in some of these
scandalous videos where he's seeing
shocking sexual vaguely pedophile things
to cousins or what-have-you but 12 year
olds and they see he is related to
remember his family it doesn't occur to
him to evaluate his own behavior as
someone who is now or potentially could
in future be in that father's figures
role it doesn't occur to him to hold
himself to that standard of being a man
being an adult and so on with the
triumph of gay rights with the success
of gay rights in a country like Canada
we may now be living through a
transitional period in which gay culture
disappears precisely because gay people
are more and more accepted into the
mainstream but let me tell you where I
grew up when I grew up in Toronto Canada
there was a separate gay subculture
there was a gay neighborhood there was
gay music there were gay restaurants
they were there weren't just gays
stand-up comics who were performing
in straight comedy clubs there will be
separate gay comedy clubs with gay
comedy for gay audience by K Kampf these
are two separate things
alright so to a much greater extent than
black people lived separately from white
people in Toronto in my youth you could
really say that gay people has her own
subculture there really was a kind of
gay presence a gay subculture and they
had their own newspapers even there were
multiple gay newspapers in downtown
Toronto and now obviously directly and
indirectly a lot of the impetus for that
was the gay rights movement that had
kind of its crowning achievement with
equality of marriage gay marriage in
Canada and now I mean probably it starts
to seem silly well gee does there really
need to be a separate gay newspaper is
there really that much interest in
having a separate dynamic gay culture in
as much as you're accepted in and
participate in the mainstream culture
more and more so some of the questions
I'm asking here it's quite possible that
ten years from now or 20 years from now
people looking back won't realize the
extent to which different behaviors were
gender coded encouraged and accepted for
gay men in a way that they never would
have been acceptable for straight men we
had a lot of conflicts in Toronto in my
youth because gay men would get away
with things at the office that neither a
heterosexual man nor a heterosexual
woman could ever possibly get away with
and this was at epidemic levels hear me
out
people would work in an office where
there was a gay man who every single day
made caddy comments about the clothes
being worn by heterosexual women working
on us and gay men who would touch the
women or touch their clothes while
commenting in this way and of course
they might do this in an effeminate way
they might do this in a way that they
consider jokey or friendly and we really
had to point out look what you're doing
right now in a workplace context this
would be harassment if a straight man
we're doing it and if a straight woman
we're doing it like it's
possible there'd be a fight and everyone
is standing back and not wanting to
confront you because you're gay and
because these behaviors are coded and
accepted as if you have a separate
subculture or as if your sexuality tells
you to this you're behaving in this way
that makes this woman's life miserable
every single day she and a bunch when
they show up to work every day knowing
that you're gonna make these comments to
them and at them and you're going to
touch them you're going to comment on
their weight you're going to comment on
their hair that you're gonna say this up
and you may think you're being friendly
but you're making people's lifestyle
this was this was a huge cultural
conflict and when you think about it
this relates back to these kind of very
vague you know unexamined cultural
assumptions about what it means to man
up what it means to adult it up a new
face you know it's not easy to
communicate to someone look when you're
in a professional environment this is
what it means for you to be a
professional among professionals this is
what it means for you to be a man
talking with a gay man you're still a
man you're here as a man wearing a suit
this is the way you have to address your
colleagues this is the way we all have
to get along these are the boundaries
you have to respect and the fact that
you're gay doesn't make you in any way
an exception to these rules now
admittedly
gay culture in Toronto also had
advantages
I had one heterosexual friend he was a
totally heterosexual guy but he spent
all of his time at the gay neighborhood
all of his friends were gay except me he
would openly say that he preferred gay
culture and he could list off the ways
in which gay male culture was preferable
the straight male culture can at that
time his impression was that straight
men spent all of their time drinking
beer and watching hockey whereas he felt
that when he was around these gay men in
the gay neighborhood they were
relatively sober relatively intellectual
and relatively politically engaged and
didn't waste all their time drinking
alcohol and watching sports on TV what
have you so I I did actually have one
friend and he really even though he was
straight he really preferred and sought
out the company has lived in the context
of gay culture it has its advantages it
doesn't just have disadvantages but when
we're talking about this example of
Kaddi behavior at the office and of gay
people getting away with and being
tolerated when they're crossing
boundaries invading people's personal
space even humiliating people in a way
where it wouldn't be tolerated for
heterosexual people this is really a
very shallow and easily observed example
you know out in the open in our in our
society what's harder to measure what's
harder to address the ways in which
people I think including Shane Dawson
just hold themselves to a much lower
standard because they don't think of
themselves as living up to those same
ultimately paternal ultimately parental
roles that define maturity and gender in
our culture and in our society
I read the autobiography of a gay man
I'm gonna leave out a lot of details
here and he talked about his decision to
adopt children he adopted two children
and raised them and he adopted them
alone so he wasn't a gay man married to
another gay man and he wasn't married to
a woman who was completely so he adopted
and raised these two children and it was
just a very interesting perspective on
both his life being gay and how he
perceived the gay community around him
and he said that he wanted to rebel
against the selfishness and short-term
thinking that he felt his colleagues had
he said he felt that his other gay
friends they didn't really plan for the
future
they didn't take responsibility and he
felt they never really grew up all the
way that they wanted to live like
teenagers their whole lives long in part
because they never took an interest in
this role of being a father of being a
parent and he adopted and raised these
two kids and the account included how
that all turned out including the
children's features as many years ago
went by now you might think this is some
kind of tremendously of steamiest
self-disciplined or even monastic
character given that I said that he
wasn't married that he lived
long no the man who wrote this
autobiography slept with male
prostitutes who were 18 years old at
least once a week so again our sense of
moral compass here our assumptions when
you're really willing to deal with the
gray areas of human nature I know he
actually went to some lengths to iterate
that he never would sleep with
seventeen-year-old so that you would
always make sure they were 18 and over
but no in some ways this is a guy who
falls into the despised category of the
pederast although not quite the
pedophile there actually are many
details but that guy's autobiography
that are morally jarring and hard to
deal with but again what was so
memorable to me about reading that
account was that it raised these
fundamental questions but the ways in
which gender roles and just even
thinking through the possibility of
yourself being a parent in some ways
helps us shape ourselves into mature and
responsible human beings Shane Dawson's
latest freakout do you notice that he's
blaming everyone but himself it's
everybody's fault but his Shane your
grown man by your own description you
spend all of your time watching gossip
on makeup channels
Shane recently was reunited with his
estranged father what would you think
Shane if you discovered that that's who
your father was that's the kind of guy
he was that was how he lived his life
that your father who be reunited with
that let's just say he was someone much
more like you Shane and you found out
that's way there's no and and chain
naturally being someone who allows
himself to wallow in this kind of
garbage content to spend his time and
energy and imagination on gossip on
makeup channels he himself has
participated in and he is himself to
become a victim of this culture of
gossip on makeup channels hate I think
it is very striking and very instructive
the extent to which Shane will blame
absolutely everyone but himself that
he'll
find fault in absolutely everyone but
himself he won't stop and reexamine the
life that led up to this personal
tragedy which it is for him I mean in
middle its how would any of you feel if
you had written this book you had a hit
book it was the single greatest
accomplishment of your life and then
that book was taken up store shelves the
his life's work was building up this
YouTube channel YouTube channel was
demonetized
it's all being taken over it is a
personal tragedy that very few of you
can fully imagine or fully relate to
just how terrible was and now yes he's
also dealing with the personal betrayal
of people in this stupid gossip beauty
makeup community backstab me but you
know what Shan nobody is responsible for
you being an adult except you
I mean you pass judgment on all these
other youtubers as do we all
and yet it seems to me that you held
yourself to this strange Peter Pan
standard that you thought you never had
to grow up you'd meet with the rating
their names the two brothers Logan Paul
and okay if you met with Logan Paul and
Jay Paul leave at hand I think you know
you mean with these guys and you
criticize them saying look is this
children's entertainment or is this for
adults why don't you grow up why don't
you start acting age those are great
questions but Shane you hold yourself to
such an abysmal low standard that I note
you never asked yourself those questions
and now in this strange way you're
dealing with the consequences I mean
really people like to disrespect my
truth but the fact is that you know my
name is I don't know